docs: consolidate getting started and context (#44)
podium-lib/podium-lib.github.io: docs/podlet/local_development.md

---
id: local_development
title: Local development
---

It is intended that podlets be developed in isolation from layouts and other podlets. This isolation can introduce challenges into local development due to some components normally provided by a layout (such as headers and Assets) not being available.

## Podlet development setup

The experience of developing a podlet on its own can be as simple as starting the podlet and visiting its URL in your favourite browser.

> Consider the following podlet server:

Reviewer: I really like this removal of "very simple" and things like that. if we want to let the reader know something isn't "how you would do it in production", we should say that 👍

This is not so much a Podium problem as it is a common Node.js problem and it's easily solved. A common way to do so is to use a module such as [nodemon](http://nodemon.io) to monitor your file system and restart your server automatically anytime relevant files change.

```bash
npx nodemon server.js
```

See the [nodemon docs](https://github.com/remy/nodemon#nodemon) for more information.

> Node also has a built-in `--watch` mode you can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node.js (v18 or newer) has a built-in `--watch` mode you can use:
```

```bash
node --watch server.js
```

See the [Node.js docs](https://nodejs.org/docs/v20.13.1/api/cli.html#--watch) for more information.

### Missing context headers

When a podlet is being run in the context of a layout server, the layout server will send a number of [Podium context](/docs/introduction/context) headers with each request. If your podlet depends on these headers to work correctly you need to turn on `development` mode.

Consider a podlet with the following content route:

```js
app.get(podlet.content(), (req, res) => {
  const { mountOrigin } = res.locals.podium.context;
  res.send(`<div>${mountOrigin}</div>`);
});
```

This podlet will behave correctly when sent requests by a layout but it will throw an error if you try to visit `/` directly in your browser.

> When `development` is enabled, you can set defaults for Podium context values that will be overwritten, and therefore not used, when requests are sent from the layout to the podlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `development` enabled, you can set defaults for Podium context values that will be overwritten, and therefore not used, when requests are sent from the layout to the podlet.
```

To enable this feature, pass `development: true` in the podlet constructor like so:

```js
const podlet = new Podlet({
  development: true,
});
```

Podium includes some sensible defaults, but you can override them if you like.

```js
podlet.defaults({

>   locale: "nb-NO",

Reviewer: would it make more sense for this to be english, since all the docs are in english etc? 🤔

Author: That's already the default though 😅

Reviewer: aha! right, then perhaps it does make sense (or remove it 🤷 )
